Command reference
=================

Common parameters and options
-----------------------------

Some parameters and options are shared by multiple ``dcc`` subcommands.

Arguments
~~~~~~~~~

Arguments are positional, and are usually required by commands that support them.

.. program:: dcc

.. option:: DCC_NUMBER

    A DCC number.

Options and flags
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Options and flags are optional parameters that change the behaviour of a command.
Options require a value of some sort, whereas flags don't.

.. option:: -s, --archive-dir

    Directory to use to archive and retrieve downloaded documents and files. If not
    specified, the :ref:`DCC_ARCHIVE <env_dcc_archive>` environment variable is used if
    set, otherwise defaults to the system's temporary directory (e.g. ``/tmp`` on
    Linux). To persist archive data across invocations of the tool, ensure this option
    is set.

.. option:: --prefer-local

    When :option:`DCC number <dcc DCC_NUMBER>` doesn't contain a version, prefer the
    latest archived record over the latest remote record. Without this flag, a record
    without a version such as ``T010075`` (as opposed to ``T010075-v1``) will *always*
    be fetched from the remote DCC host as it is otherwise not possible to determine if
    any locally archived version is the latest.

.. option:: --depth

    Recursively fetch referencing documents up to this many levels.

.. option:: --fetch-related, --no-fetch-related

    Fetch related documents when :option:`--depth <dcc --depth>` is nonzero.

.. option:: --fetch-referencing, --no-fetch-referencing

    Fetch referencing documents when :option:`--depth <dcc --depth>` is nonzero.

.. option:: -f, --force

    Force retrieval of a record or file from the remote DCC host even if it exists in
    the local archive. The locally archived record or file is overwritten with the
    retrieved version.

.. option:: --skip-category

    Skip retrieval of a particular document type, such as ``M`` ("Management or
    Policy"). This can be specified multiple times, for different document types.

.. option:: --files

    In addition to fetching the record, fetch its attached files too.

.. option:: --max-file-size

    Maximum file size to download, in MB. If larger, the file is skipped. Note: this
    behaviour relies on the DCC host providing a ``Content-Length`` header. If it does
    not, the file is downloaded regardless of its real size.

.. option:: --progress, --no-progress

    Show or hide a download progress bar. For small files the progress bar may not be
    shown. By default this is enabled.

.. option:: -n, --dry-run

    Perform a trial run of a potentially destructive operation, making no real changes.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

    Increase the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    increase verbosity.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

    Decrease the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    decrease verbosity.

.. option:: --debug

    Show full exceptions when errors are encountered.

.. option:: --host

    The DCC host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`DCC_HOST <env_dcc_host>`
    environment variable is used if set, otherwise https://dcc.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --idp-host

    The identity provider host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`ECP_IDP
    <env_idp_host>` environment variable is used if set, otherwise
    https://login.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --public

    Only attempt to retrieve public DCC records. This should avoid triggering an
    authentication check.

``dcc archive``
---------------

.. program:: dcc archive

Archive remote DCC record data locally.

:option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc archive DCC_NUMBER>` should be a DCC record designation with
optional version such as ``D040105`` or ``D040105-v1``.

If :option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc archive DCC_NUMBER>` contains a version and is present in
the local archive, it is used unless :option:`--force <dcc archive --force>` is
specified. If :option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc archive DCC_NUMBER>` does not contain a version,
a version exists in the local archive, and :option:`--prefer-local <dcc archive
--prefer-local>` is specified, the latest local version is used. In all other cases, the
latest record is fetched from the remote host.

.. option:: DCC_NUMBER

    The number for the DCC record to archive.

.. option:: --depth

    Recursively fetch referencing documents up to this many levels.

.. option:: --fetch-related, --no-fetch-related

    Fetch related documents when :option:`--depth <dcc --depth>` is nonzero.

.. option:: --fetch-referencing, --no-fetch-referencing

    Fetch referencing documents when :option:`--depth <dcc --depth>` is nonzero.

.. option:: --files

    In addition to fetching the record, fetch its attached files too.

.. option:: -s, --archive-dir

    Directory to use to archive and retrieve downloaded documents and files. If not
    specified, the :ref:`DCC_ARCHIVE <env_dcc_archive>` environment variable is used if
    set, otherwise defaults to the system's temporary directory (e.g. ``/tmp`` on
    Linux). To persist archive data across invocations of the tool, ensure this option
    is set.

.. option:: --prefer-local

    When :option:`DCC number <dcc archive DCC_NUMBER>` doesn't contain a version, prefer
    the latest archived record over the latest remote record. Without this flag, a
    record without a version such as ``T010075`` (as opposed to ``T010075-v1``) will
    *always* be fetched from the remote DCC host as it is otherwise not possible to
    determine if any locally archived version is the latest.

.. option:: --max-file-size

    Maximum file size to download, in MB. If larger, the file is skipped. Note: this
    behaviour relies on the DCC host providing a ``Content-Length`` header. If it does
    not, the file is downloaded regardless of its real size.

.. option:: --skip-category

    Skip retrieval of a particular document type, such as ``M`` ("Management or
    Policy"). This can be specified multiple times, for different document types.

.. option:: --progress, --no-progress

    Show or hide a download progress bar. For small files the progress bar may not be
    shown. By default this is enabled.

.. option:: -f, --force

    Force retrieval of a record or file from the remote DCC host even if it exists in
    the local archive. The locally archived record or file is overwritten with the
    retrieved version.

.. option:: --host

    The DCC host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`DCC_HOST <env_dcc_host>`
    environment variable is used if set, otherwise https://dcc.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --idp-host

    The identity provider host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`ECP_IDP
    <env_idp_host>` environment variable is used if set, otherwise
    https://login.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --public

    Only attempt to retrieve public DCC records. This should avoid triggering an
    authentication check.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

    Increase the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    increase verbosity.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

    Decrease the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    decrease verbosity.

.. option:: --debug

    Show full exceptions when errors are encountered.

``dcc list``
------------

.. program:: dcc list

List records in the local archive.

.. option:: -s, --archive-dir

    Directory to use to archive and retrieve downloaded documents and files. If not
    specified, the :ref:`DCC_ARCHIVE <env_dcc_archive>` environment variable is used if
    set, otherwise defaults to the system's temporary directory (e.g. ``/tmp`` on
    Linux). To persist archive data across invocations of the tool, ensure this option
    is set.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

    Increase the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    increase verbosity.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

    Decrease the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    decrease verbosity.

.. option:: --debug

    Show full exceptions when errors are encountered.

``dcc open``
------------

.. program:: dcc open

Open remote DCC record page in the default browser.

:option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc open DCC_NUMBER>` should be a DCC record designation with
optional version such as ``D040105`` or ``D040105-v1``.

.. option:: DCC_NUMBER

    The number for the DCC record to archive.

.. option:: --xml

    Open URL for XML document.

.. option:: --host

    The DCC host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`DCC_HOST <env_dcc_host>`
    environment variable is used if set, otherwise https://dcc.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --idp-host

    The identity provider host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`ECP_IDP
    <env_idp_host>` environment variable is used if set, otherwise
    https://login.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --public

    Only attempt to retrieve public DCC records. This should avoid triggering an
    authentication check.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

    Increase the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    increase verbosity.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

    Decrease the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    decrease verbosity.

.. option:: --debug

    Show full exceptions when errors are encountered.

``dcc open-file``
-----------------

.. program:: dcc open-file

Open file attached to DCC record using operating system.

:option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc open-file DCC_NUMBER>` should be a DCC record designation with
optional version such as ``D040105`` or ``D040105-v1``.

:option:`FILE_NUMBER <dcc open-file FILE_NUMBER>` should be an integer starting from 1
representing the position of the file as listed by ``dcc view DCC_NUMBER``. The file
will be opened with the default application for its type as determined by the operating
system. If :option:`--locate <dcc open-file --locate>` is specified, the file is instead
selected in the default file browser.

If :option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc open-file DCC_NUMBER>` contains a version and is present in
the local archive, it is used unless :option:`--force <dcc open-file --force>` is
specified. If :option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc open-file DCC_NUMBER>` does not contain a
version, a version exists in the local archive, and :option:`--prefer-local <dcc
open-file --prefer-local>` is specified, the latest local version is used. In all other
cases, the latest record is fetched from the remote host.

.. option:: DCC_NUMBER

    The number for the DCC record to archive.

.. option:: FILE_NUMBER

    The file number to open.

.. option:: -s, --archive-dir

    Directory to use to archive and retrieve downloaded documents and files. If not
    specified, the :ref:`DCC_ARCHIVE <env_dcc_archive>` environment variable is used if
    set, otherwise defaults to the system's temporary directory (e.g. ``/tmp`` on
    Linux). To persist archive data across invocations of the tool, ensure this option
    is set.

.. option:: --prefer-local

    When :option:`DCC number <dcc open-file DCC_NUMBER>` doesn't contain a version,
    prefer the latest archived record over the latest remote record. Without this flag,
    a record without a version such as ``T010075`` (as opposed to ``T010075-v1``) will
    *always* be fetched from the remote DCC host as it is otherwise not possible to
    determine if any locally archived version is the latest.

.. option:: --max-file-size

    Maximum file size to download, in MB. If larger, the file is skipped. Note: this
    behaviour relies on the DCC host providing a ``Content-Length`` header. If it does
    not, the file is downloaded regardless of its real size.

.. option:: --locate

    Instead of opening the file, open a file browser with the downloaded file selected.

.. option:: --progress, --no-progress

    Show or hide a download progress bar. For small files the progress bar may not be
    shown. By default this is enabled.

.. option:: -f, --force

    Force retrieval of a record or file from the remote DCC host even if it exists in
    the local archive. The locally archived record or file is overwritten with the
    retrieved version.

.. option:: --host

    The DCC host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`DCC_HOST <env_dcc_host>`
    environment variable is used if set, otherwise https://dcc.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --idp-host

    The identity provider host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`ECP_IDP
    <env_idp_host>` environment variable is used if set, otherwise
    https://login.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --public

    Only attempt to retrieve public DCC records. This should avoid triggering an
    authentication check.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

    Increase the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    increase verbosity.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

    Decrease the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    decrease verbosity.

.. option:: --debug

    Show full exceptions when errors are encountered.

``dcc scrape``
--------------

.. program:: dcc scrape

Extract and archive DCC records from URL.

Any text found on the page at :option:`URL <dcc scrape URL>` that appears to be a DCC
number is fetched and archived.

If any found DCC number contains a version and is present in the local archive, it is
used unless :option:`--force <dcc scrape --force>` is specified. If the DCC number does
not contain a version, a version exists in the local archive, and
:option:`--prefer-local <dcc scrape --prefer-local>` is specified, the latest local
version is used. In all other cases, the latest record is fetched from the remote host.

.. option:: URL

    The URL to scrape for DCC numbers.

.. option:: --depth

    Recursively fetch referencing documents up to this many levels.

.. option:: --fetch-related, --no-fetch-related

    Fetch related documents when :option:`--depth <dcc --depth>` is nonzero.

.. option:: --fetch-referencing, --no-fetch-referencing

    Fetch referencing documents when :option:`--depth <dcc --depth>` is nonzero.

.. option:: --files

    In addition to fetching the record, fetch its attached files too.

.. option:: -s, --archive-dir

    Directory to use to archive and retrieve downloaded documents and files. If not
    specified, the :ref:`DCC_ARCHIVE <env_dcc_archive>` environment variable is used if
    set, otherwise defaults to the system's temporary directory (e.g. ``/tmp`` on
    Linux). To persist archive data across invocations of the tool, ensure this option
    is set.

.. option:: --prefer-local

    When a scraped DCC number doesn't contain a version, prefer the latest archived
    record over the latest remote record. Without this flag, a record without a version
    such as ``T010075`` (as opposed to ``T010075-v1``) will *always* be fetched from the
    remote DCC host as it is otherwise not possible to determine if any locally archived
    version is the latest.

.. option:: --max-file-size

    Maximum file size to download, in MB. If larger, the file is skipped. Note: this
    behaviour relies on the DCC host providing a ``Content-Length`` header. If it does
    not, the file is downloaded regardless of its real size.

.. option:: --skip-category

    Skip retrieval of a particular document type, such as ``M`` ("Management or
    Policy"). This can be specified multiple times, for different document types.

.. option:: --progress, --no-progress

    Show or hide a download progress bar. For small files the progress bar may not be
    shown. By default this is enabled.

.. option:: -f, --force

    Force retrieval of a record or file from the remote DCC host even if it exists in
    the local archive. The locally archived record or file is overwritten with the
    retrieved version.

.. option:: --host

    The DCC host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`DCC_HOST <env_dcc_host>`
    environment variable is used if set, otherwise https://dcc.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --idp-host

    The identity provider host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`ECP_IDP
    <env_idp_host>` environment variable is used if set, otherwise
    https://login.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --public

    Only attempt to retrieve public DCC records. This should avoid triggering an
    authentication check.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

    Increase the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    increase verbosity.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

    Decrease the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    decrease verbosity.

.. option:: --debug

    Show full exceptions when errors are encountered.

``dcc update``
--------------

.. program:: dcc update

Update remote DCC record metadata.

:option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc update DCC_NUMBER>` should be a DCC record designation with
optional version such as ``D040105`` or ``D040105-v1``.

Any metadata specified for a particular field overwrites all of the existing record
metadata for that field.

.. option:: DCC_NUMBER

    The number for the DCC record to update.

.. option:: --title

    The new title.

.. option:: --abstract

    The new abstract.

.. option:: --keyword

    A keyword (can be specified multiple times).

.. option:: --note

    The new note.

.. option:: --related

    A new related document number (can be specified multiple times).

.. option:: --author

    An author in the form "Albert Einstein" (can be specified multiple times).

.. option:: -n, --dry-run

    Perform a trial run of a the remote update, making no real changes.

.. option:: -s, --archive-dir

    Directory to use to archive and retrieve downloaded documents and files. If not
    specified, the :ref:`DCC_ARCHIVE <env_dcc_archive>` environment variable is used if
    set, otherwise defaults to the system's temporary directory (e.g. ``/tmp`` on
    Linux). To persist archive data across invocations of the tool, ensure this option
    is set.

.. option:: -f, --force

    Force retrieval of a record or file from the remote DCC host even if it exists in
    the local archive. The locally archived record or file is overwritten with the
    retrieved version.

.. option:: --host

    The DCC host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`DCC_HOST <env_dcc_host>`
    environment variable is used if set, otherwise https://dcc.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --idp-host

    The identity provider host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`ECP_IDP
    <env_idp_host>` environment variable is used if set, otherwise
    https://login.ligo.org/.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

    Increase the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    increase verbosity.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

    Decrease the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    decrease verbosity.

.. option:: --debug

    Show full exceptions when errors are encountered.

``dcc view``
------------

.. program:: dcc view

View DCC record metadata.

:option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc view DCC_NUMBER>` should be a DCC record designation with
optional version such as ``D040105`` or ``D040105-v1``.

If :option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc view DCC_NUMBER>` contains a version and is present in the
local archive, it is used unless :option:`--force <dcc view --force>` is specified. If
:option:`DCC_NUMBER <dcc view DCC_NUMBER>` does not contain a version, a version exists
in the local archive, and :option:`--prefer-local <dcc view --prefer-local>` is
specified, the latest local version is used. In all other cases, the latest record is
fetched from the remote host.

.. option:: DCC_NUMBER

    The number for the DCC record to view.

.. option:: -s, --archive-dir

    Directory to use to archive and retrieve downloaded documents and files. If not
    specified, the :ref:`DCC_ARCHIVE <env_dcc_archive>` environment variable is used if
    set, otherwise defaults to the system's temporary directory (e.g. ``/tmp`` on
    Linux). To persist archive data across invocations of the tool, ensure this option
    is set.

.. option:: --prefer-local

    When :option:`DCC number <dcc view DCC_NUMBER>` doesn't contain a version, prefer
    the latest archived record over the latest remote record. Without this flag, a
    record without a version such as ``T010075`` (as opposed to ``T010075-v1``) will
    *always* be fetched from the remote DCC host as it is otherwise not possible to
    determine if any locally archived version is the latest.

.. option:: -f, --force

    Force retrieval of a record or file from the remote DCC host even if it exists in
    the local archive. The locally archived record or file is overwritten with the
    retrieved version.

.. option:: --host

    The DCC host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`DCC_HOST <env_dcc_host>`
    environment variable is used if set, otherwise https://dcc.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --idp-host

    The identity provider host to use. If not specified, the :ref:`ECP_IDP
    <env_idp_host>` environment variable is used if set, otherwise
    https://login.ligo.org/.

.. option:: --public

    Only attempt to retrieve public DCC records. This should avoid triggering an
    authentication check.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

    Increase the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    increase verbosity.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

    Decrease the program's verbosity. This can be specified multiple times to further
    decrease verbosity.

.. option:: --debug

    Show full exceptions when errors are encountered.

Environment variables
---------------------

.. _env_dcc_archive:

``DCC_ARCHIVE``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. seealso:: :ref:`local_archive`

The path to a local directory to use to archive downloaded records and files.

.. _env_dcc_host:

``DCC_HOST``
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. seealso:: :ref:`changing_host`

The DCC host to use.

.. _env_idp_host:

``ECP_IDP``
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. seealso:: :ref:`changing_host`

The identity provider host to use.
